Karla Sifuentes
Lesson 3 Notes
March 10, 2023

Lesson 4 covered the basics of JavaScript language. This allows for more complex webpages that can interact with 
the user, as opposed to HTML and CSS which display and customize only the static pieces of a website. A JavaScript
command is interpreted by the browser by reading the text in the <script> </script> tags from top to bottom and executes 
them, like a film script. We learned a little bit about the history of JavaScript and the many capabilities to enrich 
your webpages. For example, it can be used to display messages, validate forms, and even program complex games. 

To use JavaScript, embedding the <script> tags near the end of the <body> tag, before the closing </body> tag is
recommended. You can also link to a seperate, external javascript file, keeping as little files as possible so as not
to require lots of work from your browser. Your JavaScript can also go in the body of the page, where it is displayed as 
part of the HTML document and it can also go in the header of the page, although it should not be used to create output that 
would interact with the <head> content. As always, it is important to test your code and the textbook showed a helpful way to
check for errors in your code by using the tools embedded in your browser (such as 'Inspect' for Google Chrome).

Leson 4: Understanding JavaScript
What You'll Learn in This Lesson:
    What web scripting is and what it’s good for
        Scripting (or programming) language allows for interactive tasks
        
    How scripting and programming are different (and similar)
        JavaScript- an interpreted language so the browser executes each line of script as it comes to it
        Some programming languages must be compiled (translated) into machine code before execution
        usually require a browser (interpreter) for complicated graphics to execute quickly
        Interpreted languages are easier to write or change scripts

    What JavaScript is and where it came from
        JavaScript-developed in 1995 by Netscape Communications Corporation (Netscape web browser)
        first web scripting language to be supported by browsers
        originally called LiveScript, renamed javascript to indicate marketing relationship with Java language
        What you can do with JavaScript:
            display messages to the user as part of webpage
            validate contents of form and make calculations
            animate images or create images that change 
            create ad banners that interact with the user
            detect what browser is in use and perform accordingly
            detect plug ins and notify is plug in is needed
            modify webpage without requiring user to reload
            display or interact with data from remote server

    How to include JavaScript commands in a web page
        use the <script></script> tags (tells browser to read text as script)
        Four places you could use scripts
            In the body of the page
                best place to put script is inside <body> just before closing </body> so that it loads last
            In the header of the page, between the <head> tags
                scripts in the header should not be used to create output within the head section
                scripts can be referred to by ther scripts 
                <head> section often used for functions 
            Within an HTML tag such as body or form tags:
                Event handler- enables script to work with HTML elements
                when using JavaScript in event handlers you don't need to use <script> tag
            In a seperate file
                .js extension
                specify a file in the <script> tag:
                    <scriptsrc="filename.js"> </script>
                try to keep all scripts in as few files as you can

    What JavaScript can do for your web pages
        Improving Navigation
        Validating Forms (correct format for zipcodes, numbers, etc.)
        Special Effects
        Remote Scripting (AJAX- Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)
            scripts that get data froma server without loading a page
            scripts that send data back to be saved
        Displaying Time

    Beginning and ending scripts
        <script></script>

    Formatting JavaScript statements
        variable- container that can hold a value
    How a script can display a result

    Including a script within a web document

    Testing a script in a browser

    Modifying a script

    Dealing with errors in scripts
        Use Inspect to check for errors in code
    Moving scripts into separate files

Lesson 5 was about checking your code for issues, aka bugs so that your webpages look and perform the way you envision them to. You
can either use a validator website, through which you import a file or link, and it can help you not only find syntax errors, but also 
offer suggestions for fixing these mistakes. However, a validator will not catch everything, especially when your code is grammatically 
correct, but not performing in the way you'd like. This is where it can be helpful to use Developer Tools from your browser. 

To use Developer tools, first open the code in a browser and Inspect (if you are using Google Chrome). This allows you to see the code 
behind your webpage. From there, you are able to inspect the components of the code, clicking and opening tabs to make sure it reads correctly. 
If something looks off, you can go back to your source file and double check. Usually, this is where the error is. If you want to see what small
adjustments in your code would look like, developer tools allows you to manipulate the code and renders it right before your eyes. It can be helpful
to visualize right there on the browser. Overall, this lesson is extremely important, especially as you are just starting out and because we are all
bound to make mistakes. Luckily, there is always a way to fix it.

Lesson 5: Validating and Debugging Your Code
What You'll Learn in This Lesson:
    How to validate your HTML and CSS
        Validating- a way to test your pages with a special application that searches for errors and makes
        sure the pages adhere to current HTML/CSS standards
        https://validator.w3.org/
        Validation assists you in finding and fixing problems in the code

    How to use Developer Tools to debug HTML and CSS
        Using Developer Tools opens an additional window panel with the HTML code
        Validator will quickly identify pure syntax issues, but usefule to know DOM rendering
        Developer tools can also be used for debugging CSS and JavaScript too!
            
    How to use the JavaScript Console to debug JavaScript
        Breakpoints-specify where you would like to stop JS from executing    
        Step Over- code advances one line. If breakpoint is encountered when stepping over, browser stops executing
        Step Into- code advances one line. If the line is to execute another function, you are taken to the first line of code
        Step Out- current function finished executing and you are taken to next line of code in the calling function